TITLE

    Harvard XC Tracker

AUTHOR

    Renata Cummins

ABSTRACT

    A website that searches for Harvard cross country results from the 
gocrimson.com RSS news feed and then displays the results to logged-in users 
in different formats that allow for comparison over a runner's career, season, 
different races on the same course, and even races on different courses. 
Runners will also be able to predict their times in future races based on 
their previous performances. 

WHAT

    I plan to use PHP to grab meet results from the gocrimson.com RSS feed and 
store them in text files in the folder called results. Then I will also use 
PHP to parse these results and then use SQL to store them on the cloud 
database, organized by runner name. I will use XHTML, CSS, and PHP to make 
the website that will display these results. Some of the pages on the website
will just display data directly from the database, while others will require 
some additional calculations using the data. Most of these calculations will 
be implemented directly in the PHP file for the page, but the calculation
that converts a time on one course to a time on another course, which is also
used to predict future times based on past performances, will be executed in
a separate program, called convert.c, which will be written in C. 
    All of the files for this website will be hosted on the cs50 cloud. My
website's url will probably be cloud.cs50.net/~rcummins/HarvardXCTracker. 
    The home page of the website will have a banner at the top of the page 
with a picture from one of our cross country meets. The title, of the 
website, Harvard XC Tracker, will be under the under the banner. The rest of 
the page into two columns: 30% of the width is on the left, and the other 70% 
of the width is on the right. In the column on the left, there will be a 
crimson colored box that says "Login" on the top and has two fields for 
username and password. Below the two fields there is a button called "Login", 
which checks the entered fields against the database of registered users using 
SQL. If the user has already registered and appears in the database, 
this button will then direct the user to the page indiv_career_report.php 
where runner name = the name connected with the entered username in the 
database. Under the login button, there is a link "Or register for an account" 
that takes the user to a different page, register.php. On the right side of
the page, there will be some paragraphs of text that explain why I made this 
website, what it allows you to do, and who I intend to use it. 
    A new user would click on the register link on the home page, which would
take him or her to the register page. This page, like all pages in the website,
will have the banner with the picture from one of our meets across the top.
Under the banner, there is a form for the user to fill out with fields for
their first and last names, and their preferred username and password. 
    Once the user is registered, or logged in during a subsequent visit to the
site, they are directed to the indiv_career_report page, for which the runner 
name is equal to the user's name. This page also has the banner at the top,
and beneath the banner it says the runner's name. Beneath that, there is a
table called "Personal Records". The headings of this table are: Course, 
Distance, Time, Pace, Equivalent VCP 5k time, Date, Meet. The table will be 
filled with information from all the fastest races that a runner has run on 
every courses that she or he has even competed on. Underneath that table there
will be another table called "Career History". The headings of this table are:
Date, Meet, Course, Distance, Time, Pace, Equivalent VCP 5k time. This table 
lists the information for every single race the runner has competed in during
their college career. All of the table entries in the columns labeled "Course"
in both of the tables on this page will be hyperlinks, which, when clicked, 
direct the user to the career_course_report for that course. All of the table
entries in the columns labeled "date" will be hyperlinks, which , when clicked,
direct the user to the indiv_report for that meet. 
    The career_course_report page will have the banner at the top, and the 
title beneath the banner will be (the runner's name) at (the selected course).
Below the title there will be a table that displays the info for all of the 
races that the runner did on this particular course. The table's headers will 
be: Date, Meet, Distance, Time, Pace, Equivalent VCP 5k time. All of the table
entries in the date column will be hyperlinks, which, when clicked, direct the
user to the indiv_report for that meet. 
    The indiv_report page will also have the banner at the top, and the title
below the banner will be: Harvard results from (meet) at (course) on (date).
Below the title there will be a table that displays the results from the 
Harvard runners that ran in that particular meet. The table's headers will be:
Runner, Time, Pace, Distance, Place. 
    All of the pages shown after logging in or registering will have the 
title and table content in the right 80% of the page. In the left 20% of the
page, there will be a box called "Make a Prediction!". In this box, there will
be two fields, one that allows the user to choose which course they want to 
have a predicted time for, and the other which allows the reader to choose one
of the races during their career on which to base the prediction. This 
box will refresh itself using ajax once the user selects the prediction 
criteria, and display the predicted time. 
    Users will have to login to access my software. The users will only be 
members of the Harvard cross country team. The website will email me when a 
new user registers and I will be able to remove them from the database of
registered users if they are not a member of the Harvard cross country team. 
    The website will be executed and controlled using mouse and keyboard input.

 
WHY

    Currently, it is very hard for Harvard Cross Country runners to make 
comparisons between the different races they run throughout their season or
career. This is because meet results are organized into a separate results 
page for each meet, and the data is never displayed grouped together by 
individual runner. Even if a runner does remember his or her times for each 
course they have run, it is hard to know whether a race was better than a 
previous race because the courses vary in distance and elevation gain. This is
why the website will include the "Equivalent VCP 5k Time" next to each of the
times the runner has run, because comparison is possible once every time has
been converted to a standard course. The website will also provide predictions
for future races based on the times run for previous races, using the same 
technique that enabled the conversion between courses. 

HOW

I will make these files:

grab_results.php
parse_results.php
index.php
register.php
indiv_career_report.php
career_course_report.php
indiv_report.php
convert.c
The convert.c file will use all the information stored in the database to 
make a linear regression plot and then find the linear conversion between 
times on different courses based on this data. So, I have decided not to 
try to use elevation data to convert between courses, because it is too 
complicated to try to figure out how elevation gain relates to the speed at 
which runners run. 
